---
layout: post
title: "Welcome to the website!"
---

Hey everyone! I've noticed a big problem with the grade reports at TUM. Pictures that people share are always scattered between several GitHub/GitLab/LRZ/MWN repos and WhatsApp/Telegram/Matrix/Facebook groups. If you don't know if you should take a course and want to check out previous grades for it, it's always a hassle.

Moreover, the "My achievements" page on TUMOnline is inconvenient on desktop and unusable on mobile.

This is why I wanted to contribute my share and developed this small website.

It has only the main fields from exam statistics, is highlight- and mobile-friendly and, of course, supports light and dark themes based on your device settings.

The best part — you can easily contribute too! I created a GitHub issue template that looks like this: [https://github.com/mcmikecreations/tum_info/issues/3](https://github.com/mcmikecreations/tum_info/issues/3)

You can fill the info in, someone from the development team double-checks if the format is correct, assigns the label, and the bots do the rest to put your submission onto the website!

I hope it supports CIT course numbering too, but haven't had any examples to check yet. I will try to bring as many exam statistics I find in other repos as possible, but it will be a long process.

If you have any other questions or suggestions, feel free to message me or post them on GitHub. My first question to you: do you want the "Persons involved" row from TUMOnline?

Also I need help with making the website more friendly for people with accessibility issues, like vision impairment, so if anyone is familiar with how to do it in HTML/js and can help, any contribution is welcome.
